i often wonder what makes the difference
between success
and failure resilience and giving up
consistency and procrastination and
although there are probably no simple
answers
there is a framework that i've recently
adapted that has genuinely changed
things a lot for me
and that i would absolutely love to
share hiya if you're new here my name's
elizabeth i'm a medical student and an
artist living in london
i am very very curious about the way
that my mind works
using a framework from naval ravicant i
feel as though i have genuinely
changed the way that i approach work and
play the sentence that he said
was that the opposite of play isn't work
it's
depression and this hit me hard
i've always seen things as being either
work or play
and this is probably because that's how
they were presented to me when i was
younger
i was told for example you can only
leave the table
and go back to play once you've finished
your food or
i was told that i would be only able to
watch tv
or rest once i finished my homework
things were always presented to me
in a way that i could either rest and
have fun
or do work and things that i had to do
and
i feel as though i internalize this into
thinking that
i'm either working and being miserable
or i'm being happy
and resting and doing whatever i want
but work and fun
do not sit on opposite sides of the
spectrum actually the opposite of fun
would be misery or as naval said
depression
and work will sit somewhere in between
depending on the task
a task that i hate to do would be more
on the
misery side and a task that i love to do
would be
more on the fun side when i find myself
in a state of flow
and i'm working for 20 hours completely
content and inspired it's not because
i've become a different person and i
hate to play
it's because to me i am playing
that has become my goal in life to find
those things that
look like work pay like work qualify as
work
but to me fully fuel-like play so for
example
being in the hospital talking to
patients studying
reading making notes shooting these
youtube videos
all of these things to me fully qualify
as play
if i was younger this would be in the
category of things that i would choose
to do
in my resting time not in my work time
fortunately these are the type of things
that to other people might
look like work i feel as though this is
honestly
so life-changing and it's kind of been a
principle of mine
to look out for those things that other
people say oh my gosh
how are you doing that that is so
difficult but to me
feels incredibly easy if i were to be
doing things that i don't like doing as
i have done in the past
i am honestly just as lazy likely to
procrastinate
if not more than the average person it's
just because
luckily i have had the privilege to
design my life in such a way
that i get to do things that i enjoy
that i can do them
all day every day i think this mind
shift change is so amazing
it is very difficult to compete with
someone that is having fun
because as naval also said you can try
to do what they are doing
but it is unlikely that you will be able
to keep it up for 16 hours a day
seven days a week as they are able to do
because to them
they are playing and to you you will be
working so yes
i don't know if to everyone else this
was completely obvious from the start
because genuinely it was
so life-changing for me so that might
just be myself so yes
seeing things in this way trying to
identify in myself
what are the things that people are
willing to pay for that i could do for
20 hours a day
easily and once i find those things like
art and youtube and medicine
i lean into those things and invest all
of my time there
and that is how both i am happy and my
results are
hopefully good so yes i do genuinely
hope that this helped anyone at all
and as always if you made it so far
thank you so much for spending this time
with me
i hope you have a wonderful rest of your
day be kind to yourself and others and
don't believe everything you think
thanks bye